== Arag Controllers ==

Arag project has its own controller class which your controller should extends the parent controller class so that it can inherit all its functions.

For example:

{{{
  class MyController_Controller extends Controller
  {
  }
}}}

If you intend to use a constructor in any of your Controllers, you MUST place parent constructor call in cunstroctor as following example:

{{{
  class MyController_Controller extends Controller
  {
      function __construct()
      {
          parent::__construct();
      }
  }
}}}

A new feature is implemented in Arag to make the naming and calling of a controller's methods very easy and understandable. By this way, Arag recognize when you call a function within a post or get method. so that if it is GET, it will call "<functionname>_read" and it will call "<functionname>_write" if it is POST. If none of them available, automatically it will call <"functionname>":

{{{
    function edit_write()
    {
        // Statements
    }

    function edit_read()
    {
        // Statements
    }
}}}

In the above example, if you load address "<mycontroller>/edit", it will automatically call "edit_read". Cause it is a get method. And if you give a  HTML form an action of "<mycontroller>/edit", it will load "edit_write", because it happens through a post method.:
But remember that the raw function of "<functionname>", has more priority than "<functionname>_write" and "<functionname>_read". Take a look at the following codes:

{{{
    // function edit()
    // {
    //     // As far as edit_read and edit_write are exist this method will never call.
    //     // Statements
    // }

    function edit_write()
    {
        // Statements
    }

    function edit_read()
    {
        // Statements
    }
}}}

In these codes, always "edit" will be called, independent of you request method.

As you may know, Kohana completely uses PHP5. So you can use PHP5's OOP in your codes. E.g. you can rewrite the above codes like:

{{{
    public function edit()
    {
        // Statements
    }
}}}

or:

{{{
    private function edit()
    {
        // Statements
    }
}}}

and etc. But you should be very careful that where to use these keywords.

== Hidden Functions ==

If controller's function starts with underline "_", that function will be hide from outside access.

For example:

{{{
    public function _example
    {
        // Statements
    }
}}}

in above example, If some one tries to call "example", system returns error 404.
